Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
It is vacabulary set of gramitical rules for instructing a computer of computing device to perform specific tasks.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK contains of JVM ,JRE
  JVM is java virtual machine is use to execute the program
  JRE is Java run time environement is simply run java program.
What is IDE?
A.Intergrated Development Envirenment.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse
B. Intellij
C. Net Beans
d. Microsoft Visual Studio
Explain the entire java life cycle.
 Source code is written then you compile. Compiler call
 java  c  compiler , all these java source code produce byte
 code and then those byte codes you can load to JVM by using
 Java Loader in JVM (Java Virtual  Machine) it has two steps it
 verify  byte codes and just intime operator it interpretes then
 it goes to operating system. This is the life cycle of Java.

 In addition to that if you  write codes in note pad or sublime
 We see step by step process, but if you writes codes in Eclipse
 or inelleji ,IDE process above steps when hit the run button we
 get the output.
what is class?
Class is blueprint of an Object
What is object?
Object is instance of an class
What is the entry point of an application?
main method
Why main is static?
Static allows main method to be called without having to instantiate a particular instance of the class.
Because main method is static JVM can call it without creating instance of class.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Object Class
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
When you installed Java on your machine it is required to set the path environment variable to conveniently run the
executable (javac.exe, java.exe, javadoc.exe, etc…) from any directory without having to type the full
path of the command .
Classpath is system environment variable used by the Java compiler and JVM.
Java compiler and JVM is used Classpath to determine the location of required   class  files.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
In interface you can declare method not implement,but in Abstract you can declare abstract method and implement non
abstract methods.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No.
By Abstract class extend to concrete class.
what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier give accesible to the class, methods, variables and constructors and we use keywords as public,private,
protected and default.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object Oriented Programing
Abstraction : Process of implementation hiding
Encapsulation :Data hidding.
Polymorphism : An object can take on many form
Inheritance : Process of acquire properties from one class to another class
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No. Multiple inheritance not allowed in Java .For this situation java is using Interface
What is method overloading and when it happens?
That allows different methods to have same name.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
There are two different options, We can either use the try-catch-finally approach to handle all kinds of exceptions, or
,can use try-with-recource approach which allows an easier cleanup for resources.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
It is used to memory management mainly.It is belongs to the class
Static variable belongs to class.
In terms of method Static key word use with class name. method name allow withtout creating instance of class
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final key word assign it always contain the same value.
In terms of variable final keyword value cannot be chang it will be constant,In terms of metthod you cannot override it
In terms of class you cannot extend it.
What is final, finally and finalize?
 Final is a key word,The variable declared as final shold be initialized only once and cannot be changed,class cannot be
 extended and methods cannot be overridden.Finally is used to place important code,it will be excuted whether exception
 is  handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
It initialized the Object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
 This key word refer instance variable in current class,also it use to initiate current class costructor and also
 it can pass as an argument in the method or constructo call .
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Super keyword in Java can be used to refer immiediate parent class instance variable. and also can be used to invoke
immiediate parent class method.
What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine
Is JVM platform independent?
Yes
What version of java are you using?
1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is what you need to run a Java source code,JVM runs the java bytecode
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
 JVM responsible to converting Byte code to the machine specific code JRE is the real implementation ofJVM which does
 all the work of running Bytecodes.
What is compile time and run time?
Comliliation process is refered as compile time,when application is running it is call run time
What is heap?
Heap is part of Ram where object is created
How java manage it's memory?
The JVM loads the code,verify the code,executes the code, manages memory this includes allocating memory from the
operating system,managing java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects, and finally provides
the  runtime environment.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable. if you try to alter their values,another object get created,StringBuffer and Stringbuilder are mutable so they
can change their value StringBuffer is slower than StringBuffer, StringBuffer are thread safe.
What is Singleton class?
Singleton class is a class that can only have one object.To singleton class create constructor as private.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
 Serialization  is a process of converting an Object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database
 or can be sent through streams.The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.
when to use transient variable in java?
To indicate that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream
for any instance of that class.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
While loop executes the code block only if the condition is true,and do while loop condition is tested at the end of the
loop,and executes the statement in the block at least once even if the condition is failed.
What is Enum?
 Predfine constant data you can declare as Enum We can pass the Enum to constructor and initialize object from
 creating concrete class
What is Iterator?
Iterator is used in Collection framework in java to retrieve elements one by one.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer
Why is String Immutable in Java?
As String is widly use parameter for many java classes keeping immutable are catching security,synchronization,
and performances.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Calling one constructor from other is called Constructor chaining in java.Constructors can call each other using "this" and
"super" key word.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collector Thread,and Parallel Collector
uses multiple Garbage Collector Thread for the Garbage collector operations.
What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time Compiler
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects in the heap that no longer used are cleared by the garbage collection ,This is happen when the heap is full
,and this process clear space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap is where the objects are created and for dynamic memory allocation,Stack memory is used for static memory allocation
and the excuation of thread it contain methods and variables reference to the object.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection in java is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods,classes,interface at run time.
It is useful as it is way of getting class name at runtime and creating objects of that class.
what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading in Java is a feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.This is
better option where allow only one thread to access the shared resource.
What is Framework?
Frameworks are large bodies like many classes of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem in a
specific domain.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Spring MVC, Struts 2,Hibernate,JSF,Vaadin,Google Web Toolkit,Grails.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Both jUnit and testNG supports parameterized test but different in the way they  define the parameter value.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Dependies are the relationships among tasks which determine the order in which activities to be performed.
what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection in java is use any additional framework by providing classes with sufficient constructors or getter
and setter methods.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding happens at compile time while dynamic binding happens at runtime.Overloaded methods are bonded using
static binding while overridden methods are bonded using dynamic binding at run time.









